---
title: Introduction to some aspect of $B$ physics
subtitle: Focusing on the physics and some analysis techniques used in $R(D^{(\ast)})$ analyses
author: Yipeng Sun
institute: University of Maryland
date: May 30th, 2019

theme: "Rochester"
fonttheme: "serif"
slide_level: 2
toc: true
classoption: "aspectratio=169"
---

# Introduction
## Why LHCb?

It seems not so easy to discover new physics _directly_ these days: Produce new
elementry particles and observed them directly.

- CMS and ATLAS's hallmark discovery is still the Higgs boson in 2012, which is
  part of the standard model (SM) prediction
- LHCb can probe physics beyond SM _indirectly_: By measuring some processes
  very precisely, we can tell if the measurement agrees with SM prediction. If
  not, we know there must be new physics beyond SM

## $B$ physics in this talk

In this talk, we focus on _possible_ lepton flavor universality
violation (LFUV) in semileptonic $B$ meson decays:

$$
B~\text{meson} \rightarrow D/D^\ast~\text{meson} + e/\mu/\tau + e/\mu/\tau~\text{neutrino}
$$

- $B$ mesons consist of a $b$ quark and another quark
- $D/D^\ast$ mesons have the same quark content, but different masses
- Leptons have 3 flavors: electron ($e$), muon ($\mu$), tauon ($\tau$)

## What is lepton flavor universality violation?

Standard model (SM) predicts that aside from their masses, $e, \mu, \tau$
participate in all SM processes in exactly the same way (lepton flavor
universality).

```{=latex}
\begin{exampleblock}{Note}
In other words, lepton flavor should not matter, as far as SM is concerned.
\end{exampleblock}
```

## What is $R(D^{(\ast)})$?

$R(D^{(\ast)})$ is a shortcut to denote 2 double ratios: $R(D), R(D^\ast)$.
They are defined as:

$$
R(D^{(\ast)}) \equiv
\frac{\text{number of events}~B \rightarrow D^{(\ast)} + \tau + \tau~\text{neutrino}}
{\text{number of events}~B \rightarrow D^{(\ast)} + \mu + \mu~\text{neutrino}}
$$

```{=latex}
\begin{exampleblock}{Note}
SM predicts $R(D) = 0.299 \pm 0.011$, and $R(D^\ast) = 0.300 \pm 0.008$,
because $\mu, \tau$ have different masses.
\end{exampleblock}
```

## Recent measurements of $R(D^{(\ast)})$

- In 2012, BaBar measured both $R(D), R(D^\ast)$, with

## Side: 4-momentum

## Side: Mass of quarks and leptons

## Side: Mass of selected mesons

## Why do we need $B$ meson to test lepton flavor universality?



# Comparison between $e^{-}e^{+}$ and $p\bar{p}$ colliders
## How do we produce B mesons in colliders?
### $e^{-}e^{+}$ colliders

### $p\bar{p}$ colliders

## Single event comparison between BaBar and LHCb


# Analysis techniques
## A closer look at the $B$ decay chains

## How an analysis is done

After collecting data with the detector, we need to:

- Study the Monte-Carlo (MC) simulation to predict expected behaviors of data,
  and to better understand how a particular detector would affect our
  measurements
- Use the knowledge gained in MC and other means to make necessary corrections
  (e.g. rescale the momentum)
- Apply selections to data so that we can classify them as signal/background,
  etc.
- Fit data with some type of model

## Semileptonic $B$ tagging in BaBar

## On the shape of the missing mass $m_{miss}$

## Fit, in layman's term
